# What Happens when you type Google.com and press enter?
When you type "google.com" into your browser’s address bar and hit enter, a series of complex processes are triggered behind the scenes, resulting in the webpage loading and you being able to start searching. While the entire process is highly optimized and happens in milliseconds, it involves several key steps.Let’s break down what happens in a bit of technical detail.

## 1.Domain Name System (DNS) Lookup
 When you type Google.com or any domain name in your browser on your computer or device what really happens is, a request is sent to the domain name system (DNS) server which serves as an address book for all domain names. This then sends back the exact IP address of the server which https://www.google.com points to. This address will be like 123.122.130.3 rendering these numbers for humans is not possible to remember, hence the need for servers known as Domain Name System Servers. The domain names are a way for humans to remember easily for e.g Google.com, twitter.com, etc.
 If you had accessed google.com or twitter.com earlier, the browser first checks its cache to see if it has a recent record of that domain name.
 If there is a recent copy of the DNS records for that domain, it will use the IP address in the cache to send a request to the server. This speeds up the process of resolving the domain name to an IP address because it avoids the need to send a request to the DNS server.
 If the browser cache does not find a copy of the recent record of the requested domain, or if the DNS record has changed since the last time it was cached, the browser will send a request to the DNS server to resolve the domain name to an IP address.

 ## 2.TCP/IP Connection
 Once the IP address is obtained, your browser establishes a connection to the Google servers using the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) over Internet Protocol (IP).Once your computer has the IP address for www.google.com or the URL you are looking for, TCP is a protocol that ensures that the data sent between your computer and Google’s server or domain name you are looking for is delivered correctly, while IP is a protocol that ensures that the data is sent to the correct destination. This is like communication between the browser and server with the domain name you are looking for, and when the server receives the request it sends back a message acknowledging the request to establish a connection. This is like the handshake process.The server finally sends back the requested URL e.g Google.com with HTML code to the browser using TCP. The browser receives the HTML code and uses it to render the webpage on your screen. Any resources (such as images) that the webpage needs are also requested and received using TCP/IP.

 ## 3.Firewall
 To protect themselves from hackers and attacks, servers are often equipped with a firewall. A firewall is a software that sets rules about what can enter or leave a part of a network. In the case of our example, when the browser asks for the website at the address 54.172.4.191, that request has be processed by a firewall which will decide if it’s safe, or if it’s a threat to the server’s security. The browser itself can also be equipped with a firewall to detect if the IP given by the DNS request is a potential malicious agent.